All right.
Welcome back.
So now that we've created tables with equal lights we're going to see the syntax to insert data into
those empty tables so that they are no longer empty.
And then of course later not in this video we'll see how to do the same thing with a python interface.
So I have a file here that I've been working in but for now I'm just going to go back to my terminal
which I have here and we're working in the cat's database.
The dogs one is identical it's just a different name for the table but we can see there's a cat table.
And each cat has a name a breed and an age.
So if I want to add into that cat table I would do inserts into and then the name of the table cat.
And then I need to specify what I'm inserting.
So I would say if I'm going to do.
Name and then breed and then age just like that then I need to type of values and then match that order.
So I need to have a name correspond to the first thing that I enter.
So let's have blue is the first one Vrede is scottish fold and age is like three something.
I'm not sure how old she is and then I need a semi-colon.
And this is a preview to the next video.
I want to see if it works.
I can do select star from cats.
Technically this should be capitalized.
It won't make a difference though and we can see that she's in there.
But if I had to change the order here or if I had done this differently for example blue instead of
blue lets do I don't know Charlie.
It's the name.
But then if I said breed was like 35 and then age is what's ACAP read tabby.
I don't even know if that's actually a breed and I hit enter.
And now I look at my cats again you'll see that our breed is 35 and our age is Tabby which is not really
what we wanted to happen at all.
So that's not good.
So you want to make sure that whatever you write the whatever order you have here is what you follow
over here.
So we want to make sure that we have breed before age which is not what I did and hopefully this goes
without saying but to incertain to another table you just change the name here insert into dogs entered
into whatever.
The other thing I'll show you here that doesn't necessarily have to do with inserting if you want to
insert a bunch.
There's actually a couple of ways to insert bulk bulk insert but I'm not going to show that here but
let's say that we have like five of these statements that I want to do and I don't want to type them
out all the time.
What we could do is write it all in a file whereas my file.
Here we are.
So we had the create table I'm going to comment that out.
Those are the sequel comments by the way.
Kind of odd and let's say I'm going to do an insert into this time let's do dogs.
So insert into dogs and we have name age and breed.
Let's do it that way.
Why not.
And then values will be.
We'll have champ I guess who is for who is a Husky.
And then let's say I want a couple of these and then I'll duplicate this four times.
But instead of Champ let's do Rosie.
ROSE Sure.
Rose is a chihuahua.
Then we'll have Moose who is a lab.
She'd give them different ages.
Rose will be 11 will be five and Peggy will be nine.
And piggy is a corgi.
All right.
So I have these statements imagine I have a thousand different things.
Again there's better ways of doing this but with what we know have them in this file.
I can actually execute this file as sequel so I don't have to type code in manually over here.
OK.
So that file where I was typing my sequel commands was called basics as well.
Sequel then I have my dog database file this is where we want to save our data to.
So I'm going to open up the database dog database and I need sequela three don't I.
And we have a table in there called dogs.
It's empty.
Now I want to run this file and to do that I can use the read command read basic Stut sequel and I hate
this.
No feedback.
But if we look at tables that was dumb of me we're not going to see a change if we do a select star
from dogs.
We now get those for dogs.
So what we just did was type all that secret code into a separate file and execute that file.
So there a couple of things going on and remember we opened up a database that had a table in it already
it was empty but it had a table a pattern defined.
Then we ran our file called Basic Set as well.
We read it inside of school at 3.
Using this database was connected to this database and it inserted four dogs into the dogs table in
that database.
So we also could have just done it here of course like we did with cats but I just the show you can
do it from a file.